README.md, before:

# paradigm-shift-cplus
# Programming Paradigms

Electric Vehicles have BMS - Battery Management Systems

[Here is an article that helps to understand the need for BMS](https://circuitdigest.com/article/battery-management-system-bms-for-electric-vehicles)

[Wikipedia gives an idea of the types and topologies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battery_management_system)

[This site gives the optimum Charging-temperature limits](https://batteryuniversity.com/learn/article/charging_at_high_and_low_temperatures)

[This abstract suggests a range for the optimum State of Charge](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484719310911)

[Here is a reference for the maximum charge rate](https://www.electronics-notes.com/articles/electronic_components/battery-technology/li-ion-lithium-ion-charging.php#:~:text=Constant%20current%20charge:%20In%20the%20first%20stage%20of,rate%20of%20a%20maximum%20of%200.8C%20is%20recommended.)

## Possible purpose

- Protect batteries while charging:
at home, in public place, within vehicle / regenerative braking
- Estimate life, inventory and supply chains

## The Starting Point

We will explore the charging phase of Li-ion batteries to start with.

## Issues

- The code here has high complexity in a single function.
- The tests are not complete - they do not cover all the needs of a consumer

## Tasks

1. Reduce the cyclomatic complexity.
1. Separate pure functions from I/O
1. Avoid duplication - functions that do nearly the same thing
1. Complete the tests - cover all conditions.
1. To take effective action, we need to know
the abnormal measure and the breach -
whether high or low. Add this capability.

## The Exploration

How well does our code hold-out in the rapidly evolving EV space?
Can we add new functionality without disturbing the old?

## The Landscape

- Limits may change based on new research
- Technology changes due to obsolescence
- Sensors may be from different vendors with different accuracy
- Predicting the future requires Astrology!

## Keep it Simple

Shorten the Semantic distance

- Procedural to express sequence
- Functional to express relation between input and output
- Object oriented to encapsulate state with actions
- Apect oriented to capture repeating aspects

## Enchancement added

Each parameter will have a tolerance to it. Added features to check if the paramter is within the range of the updated value with tolerance.

Commit message:

Annded second enhancement of language option

README.md, after:

# paradigm-shift-cplus
# Programming Paradigms

Electric Vehicles have BMS - Battery Management Systems

[Here is an article that helps to understand the need for BMS](https://circuitdigest.com/article/battery-management-system-bms-for-electric-vehicles)

[Wikipedia gives an idea of the types and topologies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battery_management_system)

[This site gives the optimum Charging-temperature limits](https://batteryuniversity.com/learn/article/charging_at_high_and_low_temperatures)

[This abstract suggests a range for the optimum State of Charge](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484719310911)

[Here is a reference for the maximum charge rate](https://www.electronics-notes.com/articles/electronic_components/battery-technology/li-ion-lithium-ion-charging.php#:~:text=Constant%20current%20charge:%20In%20the%20first%20stage%20of,rate%20of%20a%20maximum%20of%200.8C%20is%20recommended.)

## Possible purpose

- Protect batteries while charging:
at home, in public place, within vehicle / regenerative braking
- Estimate life, inventory and supply chains

## The Starting Point

We will explore the charging phase of Li-ion batteries to start with.

## Issues

- The code here has high complexity in a single function.
- The tests are not complete - they do not cover all the needs of a consumer

## Tasks

1. Reduce the cyclomatic complexity.
1. Separate pure functions from I/O
1. Avoid duplication - functions that do nearly the same thing
1. Complete the tests - cover all conditions.
1. To take effective action, we need to know
the abnormal measure and the breach -
whether high or low. Add this capability.

## The Exploration

How well does our code hold-out in the rapidly evolving EV space?
Can we add new functionality without disturbing the old?

## The Landscape

- Limits may change based on new research
- Technology changes due to obsolescence
- Sensors may be from different vendors with different accuracy
- Predicting the future requires Astrology!

## Keep it Simple

Shorten the Semantic distance

- Procedural to express sequence
- Functional to express relation between input and output
- Object oriented to encapsulate state with actions
- Apect oriented to capture repeating aspects

## Enchancement added

1. Each parameter will have a tolerance to it. Added features to check if the paramter is within the range of the updated value with tolerance.
2. Language option added to choose between English or German. The appropriate ok, warning or error message will be printed on the console.
